[Music]
Wow your driving lessons are finally
done your driver's license is now in
your hands and you're ready to set off
into the sunset with your car there's
such a feeling of excitement when you
first sit behind the wheel on your own
independently to start your new journey
as a driver what you see all the
excitement aside there's a lot of
responsibility when it comes to driving
and even though it might not feel this
way at first knowing how to handle
certain situations can be a true
lifesaver you might be wondering what
I'm talking about
so I'll get into that in a jiff but
let's start from the beginning so once
you get your much-desired learner's
permit you'll begin to study the drivers
manual which can be a bit daunting but
after that the real fun begins what do I
mean you get your first hands-on
experience in a parking lot and if you
do well enough you can take it to the
road you might even graduate to the
highway level on the same day but let's
not get ahead of ourselves
because doing things at your own pace is
key to progressing as a driver even with
the slightest experience you get as a
new driver you might already feel like
you know everything about the road but
at the same time there's this little
annoying voice in the back of your head
nagging you in a parental tone do I
really know enough to be a responsible
driver well there's a high probability
that that nagging voice is really trying
to warn you that you need more
experience to feel confident enough and
it's probably right there are of course
a lot of situations that you need to
experience firsthand in order to know
what you need to do but don't you worry
because I have some great examples to
help you prepare
[Music]
number one driving in bad weather
whether you're driving in rain blinding
fog ice or a thunderstorm sounds like
fun huh you should know that bad weather
conditions can truly affect the way you
drive and how your vehicle responds it's
not enough just to drive when it's nice
and sunny outside good experience comes
from driving in all sorts of weather
conditions so don't be afraid to
practice in bad weather just be more
careful for example when it's raining
make sure your headlights are on even in
the daytime that'll help you be more
visible to oncoming vehicles and it'll
also help you see clearer in fact in
most states in the u.s. you're required
by law to have your headlights on when
it's raining when you're driving in
heavy rain make sure you drive slowly as
I said earlier not only do you have
limited visibility in those situations
but there's another danger called
hydroplaning most vehicles rely on the
friction between the tires and the
surface of the roads to change
directions and speed those grooves that
you see in the tires of your vehicle are
designed to get rid of excess water
beneath your tires thus giving your
tires enough friction to continue in wet
weather but during heavy rain the tires
aren't able to keep up with all the
excess water so the water pressure in
the front wheels forces a large amount
of water to go under the leading edge of
the tire forcing it to lift off the road
then the tire slides around on the
surface of the road sometimes barely
touching it and if this happens to all
the tires because of the large pools of
water in the roads it might cause them
to lose control and yes that would be
bad driving slowly allows more time for
the tires to get rid of the water and
obtain friction thus preventing you from
having an accident in this situation you
don't have time to panic but you need to
act fast first take your foot off the
gas and don't attempt to slam on your
brakes just yet because this can result
in an uncontrollable skid
what you need to do instead is get a
good grip on your wheel and try to keep
it straight
after a few split seconds you should be
able to gain control of your car again
sometimes these sorts of situations can
terrify new drivers so they might want
to take defensive driving courses to
gain some experience in bad weather
conditions in fact most racetracks
around the US promote these classes
which allow you to drive on slippery
roads and help you recover from crazy
spin outs that does sound like fun then
however doesn't mean that when it's nice
and sunny all is well the Sun can cause
accidents too let's say you're going
down a hill and the sun is shining
straight in your eyes this can cause a
glare which could then result in you
losing control of your car and causing
an accident or you don't see the other
driver coming your way same result so
always wear sunglasses and keep your
visor down when it's needed but that's
not enough make sure you go slower in
these conditions to give yourself enough
time to react when you need to also you
need to keep in mind that glare can
temporarily blind you if that happens
steer to the side of the road and wait
until you regain your bearings and the
fogginess fades
speaking of fogginess let's not forget
the real difficulty when you're driving
in fog foggy spells can be truly
unexpected especially during the fall
when patches of fog enos appear around
the roads in the warning in this
situation always keep your headlights on
and be alert Plus make sure you leave
more space between you and the car ahead
of you because even when you're crawling
they might brake suddenly and you won't
have enough time to stop due to the low
visibility number 2 driving at nighttime
now that we've covered the awful weather
conditions let's not forget the cautions
you should take when driving at night
first things first
even when you're confident with your
driving make sure you drive around at
night a few times to familiarize
yourself with it you'll definitely
notice that the Sirian roads look
different in the evening
everything else looks disoriented one
thing you should keep in mind is to dim
your light when you come across an
oncoming car it's unbelievably easy to
be blinded by someone's hi beans and go
off the road if you're driving behind a
car with your bright lights on dim them
as well because you might blind the
driver in front of you through their
mirrors
it might seem too obvious but always
drive at or just below the speed limit
in the evening to avoid any accidents
when you drive over the speed limit
especially in the dark you risk over
running the safe stopping distance that
your car requires sometimes there could
be pedestrians or animals in the road
that aren't visible until you get really
close to them so keep yourself and
others around you safe always be more
alert when driving at night number three
running off the road now that we've
covered the situation's you need to be
more cautious in let's move on to what
you need to do when your car
accidentally runs off the road this can
happen to anyone but thankfully cars are
more forgiving in certain situations and
running off the road is one of them so
don't panic if this happens to you the
first thing you need to do is get your
foot off the gas and try to guide the
car towards the pavement one key thing
you need to keep in mind is to avoid
jerking the wheel which could make you
lose control of your car once it has a
solid grip on the pavement calmly and
steadily guide the car back on to the
road number four let's talk about urban
driving urban driving might be one of
the hardest driving environments you'll
ever be in not because it's difficult to
handle your car but because it's
difficult to predict and handle the
other cars around you and let's not
forget how stressful it can be when
you're driving in an urban area be aware
the whole time don't let yourself lose
attention at any point and keep an eye
out for pedestrians because sometimes
they can come out of nowhere when you're
driving in these areas you'll learn how
to deal better with try
EPIK stoplights intersections and
one-way streets but once you have enough
urban driving experience interacting
with other cars you'll understand better
what your own capabilities are number
five don't forget the interstate driving
now that we've left the urban driving
areas let's move to the interstate which
is a bit trickier than it seems
driving on the interstate teaches you
what driving and heavy traffic
conditions really feels like and one
thing that you'll learn from that is how
to merge with the rest of the traffic
how to change lanes correctly and how to
take an exit when changing lanes you
need to make sure you check your mirrors
for fast cars and motorcycles
approaching from behind you you should
learn to look over your shoulder as well
and make sure there are no other
vehicles in your blind spot turn your
indicators on and slowly and steadily
merge with the rest of the traffic like
a true champion okay guys
for all you experienced drivers out
there what advice would you give to
people who just got their license please
let me know in the comments below
hey if you learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but wait don't go jumping
into the fast lane just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out just click on this left or
right video and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life